Adding info on setting Kuryr configuration options (#27508)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/installation-osp-kuryr-settings-active.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * post_installation_configuration/network-configuration.adoc

[id="installation-osp-kuryr-settings-active_{context}"]
= Adjusting Kuryr ports pool settings in active deployments on {rh-openstack}

You can use a custom resource (CR) to configure how Kuryr manages {rh-openstack-first} Neutron ports to control the speed and efficiency of pod creation on a deployed cluster.

.Procedure

. From a command line, open the Cluster Network Operator (CNO) CR for editing:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit networks.operator.openshift.io cluster
----

. Edit the settings to meet your requirements. The following file is provided as an example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
kind: Network
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  clusterNetwork:
  - cidr: 10.128.0.0/14
    hostPrefix: 23
  serviceNetwork:
  - 172.30.0.0/16
  defaultNetwork:
    type: Kuryr
    kuryrConfig:
      enablePortPoolsPrepopulation: false <1>
      poolMinPorts: 1 <2>
      poolBatchPorts: 3 <3>
      poolMaxPorts: 5 <4>
----

> <1> Set `enablePortPoolsPrepopulation` to `true` to make Kuryr
> create new Neutron ports when a namespace is created or a new node is added to
> the cluster. This setting raises the Neutron ports quota, but can reduce the time that is required to spawn pods. The default value is `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Set `enablePortPoolsPrepopulation` to `true` to make Kuryr create new Neutron ports after a namespace is created or a new node is added to the cluster. This setting raises the Neutron ports quota, but can reduce the time that is required to spawn pods. The default value is `false`.
```

> <2> Kuryr creates new ports for a pool when the number of free ones in that
> pool is lower than `poolMinPorts`. The default value is `1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> Kuryr creates new ports for a pool if the number of free ports in that pool is lower than the value of `poolMinPorts`. The default value is `1`.
```

> <3> `poolBatchPorts` controls the number of new ports that are created when the number of
> free ports is lower than `poolMinPorts`. The default value is `3`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> `poolBatchPorts` controls the number of new ports that are created if the number of free ports is lower than the value of `poolMinPorts`. The default value is `3`.
```

> <4> If the number of free ports in a pool is higher than `poolMaxPorts`, Kuryr
> deletes them until the number matches the value of `poolMaxPorts`. Setting `0`
> disables this upper bound, preventing pools from shrinking. The default value is `0`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<4> If the number of free ports in a pool is higher than the value of `poolMaxPorts`, Kuryr deletes them until the number matches that value. Setting the value to `0` disables this upper bound, preventing pools from shrinking. The default value is `0`.
```

. Save your changes and quit the text editor to commit your changes.

[IMPORTANT]
====

> Modifying these options on a running cluster forces the
> kuryr-controller and kuryr-cni pods to restart. As a result, the creation of
> new pods and services will be delayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modifying these options on a running cluster forces the kuryr-controller and kuryr-cni pods to restart. As a result, the creation of new pods and services will be delayed.
```
